Here is our application.yml file.
The key‑store‑password is in plain text.
If a malicious party got a hold of the certificate and the key‑store‑password,
they could effectively perform a man‑in‑the‑middle attack.
One way to reduce the risk of that happening is to encrypt the credentials.
For this, we can use the jasypt library.
It has great Spring support.
Simply download the latest jasypt distribution from their website.
If you unzip it,
there's a bin folder with some very useful script for encrypting and decrypting.
Now using the encrypt script, pass in the input,
which is the string you want to encrypt.
In our case, it's the key‑store‑password,
and then provide a password which can be used to decrypt this later.
Now that we have generated this ciphertext,
add the latest jasypt Spring Boot starter dependency,
and in the application.yml, replace the key‑store‑password with ENC,
brackets, and the encrypted stream closed within.
Now, in order for jasypt to be able to decrypt the ciphertext,
we need to provide it with the password and what algorithm we used.
For the password of the ciphertext, we could put it in the properties file,
but that kind of defeats the purpose as anyone could
decrypt it by looking at our properties file,
and they would have all the details, the algorithm and the password.
Hence,
other better options are to either pass in the value of the
password using environment variables.
This is a much better way as it's not in source control.
Now a good idea is to also not store the algorithm in a properties file,
as this makes it much harder for any malicious party
trying to brute force the ciphertext.
Now one thing to note,
the defaults used by the command‑line interface and the jasypt
Spring Boot implementation don't exactly line up.
And as of version 3.0.2,
you also need to configure the initialization vector class,
which is the no‑initialization vector.
Now with jasypt, you can also use encrypted values within your source code.
This is a great start as our secrets are now encrypted.
But there is more to effective secret management than just encryption. Let's discuss this next.